These sources constitute a modified version of Ckermit release 4E(067),
adapted to the builtin modem on AT&T 7300 and 3b1 computers.  I have left
all other UNIX versions intact, as far as I know, but have removed the
VMS, Macintosh, and other non-unix versions from this posting.  I have
tested this version fairly extensively on my UNIX PC, and somewhat on a
VAX running 4.3BSD to make sure I hadn't broken anything.

This version has lots of neat features to speed up file transfers,
especially when connected to another recent version.

The documentation is a bit daunting, even though I have pared it down
a lot to remove non UNIX PC stuff.  Here's the stuff you'll want to
know first (I think):

  - The diffs for this version from the official 4E(067) release have
    been sent to Columbia, where they tell me they'll try to get UNIX PC
    support into the released product.
  - You make this on a UNIX PC with the command 'make upc'.
  - I am not distributing binaries -- I hope that if you don't have
    the distribution kit, you have a kindly net.neighbor who does.
  - The makefile renames two symbols to make use of the shared library
    easy.  It doesn't invoke the shared library itself, because I have
    a 'cc' intercept shell-program that does that for me, and I recommend
    this approach.
  - The builtin modem is called 'internal'; I typically make a call by
    this sequence:
	C-kermit> set modem internal
	C-kermit> set line /dev/ph1
	C-kermit> set speed 1200
	C-kermit> dial 555-0000
	C-kermit> connect
	[ fiddle with remote system and make it run kermit, or else
	  just use this mode as a terminal emulator for a while, and then
	  log off, but if I use kermit it continues thus: ]
	Remote kermit> serve
	[ type the local escape sequence - control-\ C ]
	C-kermit> [ sequence of 'send' and 'get' commands ]
	C-kermit> bye 
	C-kermit> exit
  - You can send complaints, requests, comments, and appreciations to me
    at ...!nrcvax!kosman!kevin or ...!ihop3!kosman!kevin.  Please don't
    use autorouting if you can avoid it -- in the current state of the
    maps, my friend in St. Louis unfairly pays for all such mail.
