This directory contains documentation for astronomy programs:

All files ending in ".1" are man pages for the corresponding programs.
"starchart.1"  contains general  information   about  all  the   star*
programs.  "starX11.1"   is   the man page  for   starX11 and starXaw,
"staribm.1" is  for the IBM PC  version, and  "starpost.1"  is the man
page  for starpost, but these man  pages each contain only the special
features  of  the program; the   rest of   the information  is  in the
"starchart.1" man page.

The other files   are various forms  of  (the first  version  of)   an
extensive documentation set.  The key  file is  "astro.texinfo", which
is in GNU Emacs texinfo format.  This file may be formatted using TeX:
see the GNU Emacs distribution for details.  I have already run TeX on
this file, the .dvi  file  is "astro.dvi".   I   then used a  "dvi2ps"
program to    generate   the "astro.PS" file.    These   files are  in
../doc-formatted.  This directory is not in the mailable shar files or
the comp.sources.misc distribution.

The texinfo file  has  also been (automatically) processed  into *roff
form, producing the  "astro.ms"   file which uses   -ms   macros.  The
nroffed output from this file is in "astro.cat" in ../doc-formatted.

The texinfo file is also to be used  from within GNU Emacs.  The Emacs
Info format file is provided  as the file "astro" in ../doc-formatted.
The  Emacs lisp file "astroinfo.el" is  provided to facilitate  use of
this file.  The command:

emacs -l astroinfo.el

starts emacs  in info mode   with the file loaded  and  ready   to  be
browsed.  You may want to edit the "astroinfo.el" file to use the full
path name of the "astro" file.

You probably only need  the "astro.PS" file, if you  have a PostScript
printer; "astro.dvi" if you have TeX  and a non-PostScript printer; or
"astro.ms" or "astro.cat" files, if you don't.  If you have GNU Emacs,
you may find the  "astro" file useful.  Feel   free to delete all  the
files you don't need.
