These patches fix cent to run under System V.  I had to (or chose to):

o Remove job control references
o Change some ioctls (but not much; my SysV has an sgtty.h that
  provides some compatibility).
o Add a setblock() routine (and a lot of calls to it) that turns
  blocking reads on and off.
o Change the load average code (but either I've done it wrong or my
  machine doesn't keep track of the load average: it's always 0).
  Mostly I just made it explain itself if it screws up.
o Change the random number generator a bit.
o Change score.c to use the user's preferred pager instead of assuming
  more(1), since most SysV sites a) don't have more(1), and b) most
  Unix sites I'm familiar with have multiple pagers available (e.g.,
  less(1)).  Same for the help file display.
o Change calls to the FIONREAD ioctl() to use a one character
  lookahead buffer.
o Change the keybindings to use hack/vi keys, like all the rest of our
  games (just my preference).

Stuff that still doesn't work and that I'd appreciate fixes to:

o The redrawscr() function doesn't.
o Restored games don't redraw the screen, so you only see the things
  that have changed since the game restarted (like the centipede, the
  spider, yourself, and the shrooms that you zap).


[ These patches were produced and concatenated automatically by makepatch.]

This file contains all you need to convert the old version of cent
to the latest version; it contains context diffs that will
update the following files:

Makefile			    cent.c
cent.h				    input.c
interrupts.c			    la.c
move.c				    rand.c
save.c				    score.c
stuff.c				    sys_dep.c
sys_dep.h

If you have Larry Wall's patch program, you can feed this file to it,
and you're all set.  Just cd to the directory where you keep the
source code for cent and say:

	    patch <patches

where "patches" is this file.

If not, you'll have to do it by hand (good luck!).

These patches were done by Keith Waclena 
at University of Chicago, Graduate Library School on cerberus.

