A crystal plate mail will not rust.
A katana might slice a worm in two.
A magic vomit pump could be useful for gourmands.
A nymph knows how to unlock chains.
A potion of blindness lets you see invisible things.
A priest can get the gods to listen easily.
A priest can go to hell just like the rest of us.
A priestess and a virgin you might be, but that unicorn won't care.
A ring of conflict is a bad thing if there is a nurse in the room.
A short sword is not as good as a long sword.
A succubus will go farther than a nymph.
Acid blobs should be attacked bare-handed.
Affairs with nymphs are often very expensive.
Afraid of nymphs?  Wear a ring of adornment.
Afraid of your valuables being stolen?  Carry more junk!
Always be aware of the phase of the moon!
Always sweep the floor before engraving important messages.
Amulets are hard to make.  Even for a wand of wishing.
An elven cloak protects against magic.
An umber hulk can be a confusing sight.
Are you blind?  Catch a floating eye!
Asking about monsters may be very useful.
Attacking an eel when there is none usually is a fatal mistake!
Bashing monsters with a bow is not such a good idea.
Be careful!  The Wizard may plan an ambush!
Be nice to a nurse:  Put away your weapon and take off your clothes.
Being digested is a painfully slow process.
Blank scrolls make more interesting reading.
Booksellers never read scrolls; they might get carried away.
Concise conquest:  Control, confuse, conjure, condemn.
Dead lizards protect against a cockatrice.
Demons are one thing; demon-lords, on the other hand,...
Dilithium crystals are rare indeed.
Dogs are attracted by the smell of tripe.
Dogs are superstitious; they never step on cursed items.
Dogs of ghosts aren't angry, just hungry.
Don't bother about money:  only leprechauns and shopkeepers are interested.
Don't forget!  Large dogs are MUCH harder to kill than little dogs.
Don't mess with shopkeepers, or you'll get the Guild after you.
Dragons never whip their children; they wouldn't feel it!
Eat your carrots.  They're good for your eyes.
Eating a freezing sphere is like eating a yeti.
Eating a killer bee is like eating a scorpion.
Eating a tengu is like eating a nymph.
Eating a wraith is a rewarding experience!
Eating unpaid leprechauns may be advantageous.
Elbereth has quite a reputation around these parts.
Elf has extra speed.
Elven cloaks cannot rust.
Ever fought with an enchanted tooth?
Ever tried reading while confused?
Ever tried to put a troll into a large box?
Ever wondered why one would want to dip something in a potion?
Expensive cameras have penetrating flash lights.
Fiery letters might deter monsters.
Gems are too precious to be thrown away carelessly.
Getting hungry?  Stop wearing rings!
Gods expect the best from their priesthood.
Gods look down their noses at demigods.
Half Moon tonight.  (At least it's better than no Moon at all.)
Handle your flasks carefully -- there might be a ghost inside!
Holy water has many uses.
Hunger is a confusing experience for a dog!
I once knew a hacker who ate too fast and choked to death.
I smell a maze of twisty little passages.
I wish I never wished a wand of wishing.  (Wishful thinking.)
I wouldn't advise playing catch with a giant.
I'm watching you.  -- The Wizard of Yendor
Ice boxes keep your food fresh.
If you are being punished, it's done with a deadly weapon.
If you kill the Wizard, you get promoted to demi-god.
If you need a wand of digging, kindly ask the minotaur.
If you want a sex change, you must get it before the game.
If you want to hit, use a dagger.
If you want to rob a shop, train your dog.
If you're lost, try buying a map next time you're in a shop.
Inside a shop you better take a look at the price tags before buying anything.
It is bad manners to use a wand in a shop.
It is dangerous to visit a graveyard at midnight.
It is not always a good idea to whistle for your dog.
It is rumored that the Wizard has hired some help.
It might be a good idea to offer the unicorn a ruby.
It would be peculiarly sad were your dog turned to stone.
Keep your armors away from rust.
Keep your weaponry away from acids.
Kill a unicorn and you kill your luck.
Leather is waterproof.  Ever see a cow with an umbrella?
Leprechauns are the most skilled cutpurses in this dungeon.
Most monsters can't swim.
Music hath charms to affect the stubborn drawbridge.
Music hath charms to soothe the savage beast.
Never attack a guard.
Never ride a long worm.
Never use your best weapon to engrave a curse.
No easy fighting with a heavy load!
Nurses are accustomed to touch naked persons:  they don't harm them.
Nymphs can unlink more than your chain mail.
Once your little dog will be a big dog, and you will be proud of it.
Opening a tin is difficult, especially when you attempt it bare handed!
Orcs and killer bees share their lifestyle.
Orcs do not procreate in dark rooms.
Plain nymphs are harmless.
Playing AD&D may be helpful.
Playing Gauntlet might be enlightening in some situations.
Playing billiards pays when you are in a shop.
Polymorphing a shopkeeper might make you safer.
Polymorphing your dog probably makes you safer.
Potions don't usually mix, but sometimes...
Psst!  It's done with mirrors!
Put on a ring of teleportation:  it will take you away from onslaught.
Rays aren't boomerangs, of course, but still...
Read the manual before entering the cave -- you might get killed otherwise.
Reading Herbert might be enlightening in one case.
Reading Tolkien might help you.
Rust monsters love water.  There are potions they hate, however.
Shopkeepers accept credit cards, as long as you pay cash.
Shopkeepers can spot a tourist a mile away with those Hawaiian shirts.
Shopkeepers can't read, so what use is engraving in a shop?
Shopkeepers can't swim.
Shopkeepers can't tell identical twins apart.
Shopkeepers have incredible patience.
Shopkeepers might raise their prices for tourists.
Shopkeepers value money more than revenge.
Some monsters can be tamed.  I once saw a hacker with a tame dragon!
Someone's been spiking the pits!
Sometimes monsters are more likely to fight each other than attack you.
Spinach, carrot, and a melon -- a meal fit for a nurse!
Tainted meat is even more sickening than poison!
Telepathy is just a trick:  once you know how to do it, it's easy.
The Leprechaun Gold Tru$t is no division of the Magic Memory Vault.
The Wizard finds death to be quite an experience.
The best equipment for your work is, of course, the most expensive.
The gods don't appreciate pesky priesthood.
The moon is not the only heavenly body to influence this game.
The orc swings his two handed sword named Elfrist at you.  You die...
The secret of wands of Nothing Happens:  try again!
There has always been something mystical about mirrors.
There is a Mastermind deep in the dungeon.
There is a big treasure hidden in the zoo!
There is a trap on this level!
There is more magic in this cave than meets the eye.
There is no harm in praising a large dog.
There is nothing like eating a mimic.
They say a gelatinous cube can paralyze you...
They say that a cat avoids traps.
They say that a dog can be trained to fetch objects.
They say that a unicorn might bring you luck.
They say that killing a shopkeeper brings bad luck.
They say that monsters never step on a scare monster scroll.
They say that shopkeepers often have a large amount of money in their purses.
They say that the Leprechaun King is rich as Croesus.
They say that the walls in shops are made of extra hard material.
They say that you can't take your pick-axe into a shop.
They say the Wizard's castle is booby-trapped!
They say the gods get angry if you pray too much.
They say the shopkeepers are insured by Croesus himself!
They say there is a powerful magic item hidden in a castle deep down!
Those who wield a cockatrice corpse have a rocky road ahead of them.
Throwing food at a wild dog might tame him.
Trolls are described as rubbery:  they keep bouncing back.
Try the fall-back end-run play against ghosts.
Try using your magic marker on wet scrolls.
Valkyries come from the north, and have commensurate abilities.
Vampires hate garlic.
Vault guards never disturb their Lords.
Visitors are requested not to apply genocide to shopkeepers.
Wanted: shopkeepers.  Send a scroll of mail to: Mage of Yendor/Level 35/Dungeon.
Warning:  people who eat red dragons can go to hell!
Watch out, the Wizard might come back.
Water traps have no effect on dragons.
What is a cockatrice going to eat when it gets hungry?
Where do you think all those demons come from?  From hell, of course.
Where do you think hell is located?  It must be deep, deep down.
Who would ever have thought one could live by eating fog clouds?
Why do you suppose they call them MAGIC markers?
Why would anybody in his sane mind engrave "Elbereth"?
Wishing too much may bring you too little.
You can't leave a shop through the back door:  there ain't one!
You may discover a fine spirit inside a potion bottle.
You may want to dip into a potion of bottled blessings.
You might be able to bribe a demon-lord.
You might trick a shopkeeper if you're invisible.
You should certainly learn about quantum mechanics.
You're going into the morgue at midnight???
Your dog knows what to eat; maybe you should take lessons.
Zap yourself and see what happens...
Zapping a wand of undead turning might bring your dog back to life.
"So when I die, the first thing I will see in Heaven is a score list?"
A Dragon is just a Snake that ate a scroll of fire.
A Nymph will be very pleased if you call her by her real name:  Lorelei.
A chameleon imitating a mail daemon often delivers scrolls of fire.
A cockatrice's corpse is guaranteed to be untainted!
A dead cockatrice is just a dead lizard.
A dead lizard is a good thing to turn undead.
A fading corridor enlightens your insight.
A glowing potion is too hot to drink.
A good amulet may protect you against guards.
A long worm can be defined recursively.  So how should you attack it?
A monstrous mind is a toy forever.
A ring of dungeon master control is a great find.
A ring of extra ring finger is useless if not enchanted.
A rope may form a trail in a maze.
A staff may recharge if you drop it for awhile.
A visit to the Zoo is very educational; you meet interesting animals.
A wand of deaf is a more dangerous weapon than a wand of sheep.
A wand of vibration might bring the whole cave crashing about your ears.
A wish?  Okay, make me a fortune cookie!
A winner never quits.  A quitter never wins.
Afraid of mimics?  Try to wear a ring of true seeing.
All monsters are created evil, but some are more evil than others.
Always attack a floating eye from behind!
An elven cloak is always the height of fashion.
Any small object that is accidentally dropped will hide under a larger object.
Attack long worms from the rear -- that is so much safer!
Balrogs do not appear above level 20.
Banana peels work especially well against Keystone Kops.
Be careful when eating bananas.  Monsters might slip on the peels.
Better leave the dungeon; otherwise you might get hurt badly.
Beware of the potion of nitroglycerin -- it's not for the weak of heart.
Beware:  there's always a chance that your wand explodes as you try to zap it!
Beyond the 23rd level lies a happy retirement in a room of your own.
Changing your suit without dropping your sword?  You must be kidding!
Cockatrices might turn themselves to stone faced with a mirror.
Consumption of home-made food is strictly forbidden in this dungeon.
Death is just life's way of telling you you've been fired.
Dark room?  Your chance to develop your photographs!
Dark rooms are not *completely* dark:  just wait and let your eyes adjust...
David London sez, "Hey guys, *WIELD* a dead lizard against a cockatrice!"
Demi-gods don't need any help from the gods.
Demons *HATE* Priests and Priestesses.
Didn't you forget to pay?
Didn't your mother tell you not to eat food off the floor?
Direct a direct hit on your direct opponent, directing in the right direction.
Don't eat too much:  you might start hiccoughing!
Don't play hack at your work; your boss might hit you!
Don't tell a soul you found a secret door, otherwise it isn't a secret anymore.
Drinking potions of booze may land you in jail if you are under 21.
Drop your vanity and get rid of your jewels!  Pickpockets about!
Eat 10 cloves of garlic and keep all humans at a two-square distance.
Eels hide under mud.  Use a unicorn to clear the water and make them visible.
Engrave your wishes with a wand of wishing.
Eventually you will come to admire the swift elegance of a retreating nymph.
Ever heard hissing outside?  I *knew* you hadn't!
Ever lifted a dead dragon?
Ever seen your weapon glow plaid?
Ever seen a leocrotta dancing the tengu?
Ever tamed a shopkeeper?
Ever tried digging through a Vault Guard?
Ever tried enchanting a rope?
Extra staircases lead to extra levels.
Floating eyes can't stand Hawaiian shirts.
For any remedy there is a misery.
Giant bats turn into giant vampires.
Good day for overcoming obstacles.  Try a steeplechase.
Help!  I'm being held prisoner in a fortune cookie factory!
Hungry?  There is an abundance of food on the next level.
I guess you've never hit a mail daemon with the Amulet of Yendor...
If you are the shopkeeper, you can take things for free.
If you can't learn to do it well, learn to enjoy doing it badly.
If you thought the Wizard was bad, just wait till you meet the Warlord!
If you turn blind, don't expect your dog to be turned into a seeing-eye dog.
If you want to feel great, you must eat something real big.
If you want to float, you'd better eat a floating eye.
If your ghost kills a player, it increases your score.
Increase mindpower:  Tame your own ghost!
It furthers one to see the great man.
It is said that Killer Bunnies can be tamed with carrots only.
It's easy to overlook a monster in a wood.
Just below any trapdoor there may be another one.  Just keep falling!
Katanas are very sharp; watch you don't cut yourself.
Keep a clear mind:  quaff clear potions.
Kicking the terminal doesn't hurt the monsters.
Killer bees keep appearing till you kill their queen.
Latest news?  Put 'rec.games.hack' in your .newsrc!
Learn how to spell.  Play NetHack!
Leprechauns hide their gold in a secret room.
Let your fingers do the walking on the yulkjhnb keys.
Let's face it:  this time you're not going to win.
Let's have a party, drink a lot of booze.
Liquor sellers do not drink; they hate to see you twice.
Lunar eclipse tonight.  May as well quit now!
Meeting your own ghost decreases your luck considerably!
Money to invest?  Take it to the local branch of the Magic Memory Vault!
Monsters come from nowhere to hit you everywhere.
Monsters sleep because you are boring, not because they ever get tired.
Most monsters prefer minced meat.  That's why they are hitting you!
Most of the bugs in NetHack are on the floor.
Much ado Nothing Happens.
Multi-player NetHack is a myth.
NetHack is addictive.  Too late, you're already hooked.
Never ask a shopkeeper for a price list.
Never burn a tree, unless you like getting whacked with a +5 shovel.
Never eat with glowing hands!
Never mind the monsters hitting you:  they just replace the charwomen.
Never play leapfrog with a unicorn.
Never step on a cursed engraving.
Never swim with a camera:  there's nothing to take pictures of.
Never trust a random generator in magic fields.
Never use a wand of death.
No level contains two shops.  The maze is no level.  So...
No part of this fortune may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, ...
Not all rumors are as misleading as this one.
Nymphs and nurses like beautiful rings.
Nymphs are blondes.  Are you a gentleman?
Offering a unicorn a worthless piece of glass might prove to be fatal!
Old hackers never die:  young ones do.
One has to leave shops before closing time.
One homunculus a day keeps the doctor away.
One level further down somebody is getting killed, right now.
Only a wizard can use a magic whistle.
Only adventurers of evil alignment think of killing their dog.
Only chaotic evils kill sleeping monsters.
Only real trappers escape traps.
Only real wizards can write scrolls.
Operation OVERKILL has started now.
Polymorph into an ettin; meet your opponents face to face to face.
PLEASE ignore previous rumor.
Praying will frighten demons.
Row (3x) that boat gently down the stream, Charon (4x), death is but a dream.
Running is good for your legs.
Screw up your courage!  You've screwed up everything else.
Segmentation fault (core dumped).
Shopkeepers sometimes die from old age.
Some mazes (especially small ones) have no solutions, says man 6 maze.
Some questions Sphinxes ask just *don't* have any answers.
Sometimes "mu" is the answer.
Sorry, no fortune this time.  Better luck next cookie!
Spare your scrolls of make-edible until it's really necessary!
Suddenly, the dungeon will collapse...
Taming a mail daemon may cause a system security violation.
The leprechauns hide their treasure in a small hidden room.
The longer the wand the better.
The use of dynamite is dangerous.
They say that a spear will hit a neo-otyugh.  (Do YOU know what that is?)
They say that only David can find the zoo!
They say that you cannot trust scrolls of rumor.
They say that you need a key in order to open locked doors.
They say the Gods get angry if you kill your dog.
This fortune cookie is the property of Fortune Cookies, Inc.
To reach heaven, escape the dungeon while wearing a ring of levitation.
Tourists wear shirts loud enough to wake the dead.
Tridents are for use underwater.
Try calling your katana Moulinette.
Ulch!  That meat was painted!
Using a morning star in the evening has no effect.
Want a hint?  Zap a wand of make invisible on your weapon!
We have new ways of detecting treachery...
What a pity, you cannot read it!
When a piercer drops in on you, you will be tempted to hit the ceiling!
When in a maze follow the right wall and you will never get lost.
When you have a key, you don't have to wait for the guard.
Why are you wasting time reading fortunes?
Why bother casting fireballs in hell?
Wish for a master key and open the Magic Memory Vault!
Wizard expects every monster to do its duty.
You are destined to be misled by a fortune.
You can get a genuine Amulet of Yendor by doing the following:  --More--
You can protect yourself from black dragons by doing the following:  --More--
You feel like someone is pulling your leg.
You hear the fortune cookie's hissing!
You have to outwit a sphinx or pay her.
You may get rich selling letters, but beware of being blackmailed!
You offend Shai-Hulud by sheathing your crysknife without having drawn blood.
You swallowed the fortune!
You want to regain strength?  Two levels ahead is a guesthouse!
You will encounter a tall, dark, and gruesome creature...
First Law of Hacking:  leaving is much more difficult than entering.
Second Law of Hacking:  first in, first out.
Third Law of Hacking:  the last blow counts most.
Fourth Law of Hacking:  you will find the exit at the entrance.
