
  Code credits are where code credits are due.  If I miss anyone, please
forgive (and notify) me!

Gene Spafford -- overall design help.

Robert Baldwin -- the kuang package.

Craig Leres, Seth Alford, Roger Southwick, Steve Dum, and Rick Lindsley
all get credit for the password guessing program.

Prentiss Riddle -- the suid checker.

  And of course lots of credit goes to my great Beta-release sweatshop team;
especially Adri Verhoef for tightening up lots of my crummy code (cops,
group.chk, root.chk, is_writable, dev.chk, dir.chk & file.chk among others),
Steve Romig for good ideas _and_ letting me use a system V machine to test
on (how many people do you know that would let you test a security
system on their system with no strings attached!) Jason Levitt, Jim
Kimble, Jim Rowan, Stefan Vorkoetter, Judy Scheltema, Pete Troxell (all
the Sun C2 stuff....), Dennis Conley, and of course John Sechrest.
Tony Petrost pointed out some of my incorrect assumptions and helped
fix cron.chk.  Kudos also to Bruce Spence for giving me some good
implementation ideas at LISA II.

  If strings is not available to you, a version is available on uunet;
also a nifty install program written by Kevin Braunsdorf that can be used
as a super directory/file mode checker/security device should be
available soon in comp.sources.unix (these programs large sizes preculudes
their inclusion in COPS, but I recommend looking into them.)
Both can be gotten via anonymous ftp.  Strings is in comp.unix.sources
directory, install should be in the same.
  Everything else not explicitely mentioned in the COPS.report.ms paper
or here was written by me.  Not mentioned execpt in the source code are
some small changes made by myself to make everything fit in as a cohesive
whole; I tried to make comments in the source code if I changed it (never
to drastic in any case.)

  For a good story on the subject, you might want to read _The Cuckoo's
Egg_, by Clifford Stoll.  This is a true tale of a sysadmin's fight 
against beaurocracy and a hacker (the bad kind.)  Good stuff.

