From littlei!reed!tektronix!cae780!amdcad!ames!lll-tis!mordor!sri-spam!rutgers!husc6!hao!gatech!hubcap!ncrcae!sauron!wescott Sat Aug 29 18:56:55 PDT 1987
Status: R

Article 1167 of comp.sources.d:
Path: littlei!reed!tektronix!cae780!amdcad!ames!lll-tis!mordor!sri-spam!rutgers!husc6!hao!gatech!hubcap!ncrcae!sauron!wescott
>From: wescott@sauron.Columbia.NCR.COM (Mike Wescott)
Newsgroups: comp.sources.d
Subject: Re: File access problem using ptc --
Keywords: reset, pascal, ptc, um
Message-ID: <921@sauron.Columbia.NCR.COM>
Date: 28 Aug 87 15:46:15 GMT
References: <490@leah.Albany.Edu>
Reply-To: wescott@sauron.Columbia.NCR.COM (Mike Wescott)
Organization: Advanced Systems Development, NCR Corp., Columbia, SC
Lines: 363

In article <490@leah.Albany.Edu> rds95@leah.Albany.Edu ( Robert Seals) writes:
> .......<stuff deleted>.....
> % cc ptcbug.c
> "ptcbug.c", line 66: operands of : have incompatible types
> "ptcbug.c", line 120: redeclaration of rewind
> 
> Has anybody come up with anything that will make it work? Programs that
> use stdin and out all work fine, and this is a real bummer drag,
> because very few of my programs don't use files.

One fix is to replace the call to rewind with an equivalent fseek. There is
also a bug in the way filenames are handled in the code emited for Fopen().
The bug can result in garbage or spaces in filenames opened.

A third bug is the way colno is calculated - if a tab occurs in just before
a tabstop colno is pushed one tabstop too far.

I also added getchar() and putchar() to the cname list (this maybe just a
SysV anomaly).

I ran into problems porting TeX if changes weren't made in the defmach
routine.  These changes are included and force all arithmetic to be 
signed (on the C side).

The emitted code for switch was changed to include a cast to int -- my
C compiler complains if enums are switched.

There is an initialization problem in the handling of the node created
when a case statement is parsed.  In some cases (pun) the generation
of a nchoise-variant record can have the tchocon and tchostmt elements
left uninitialized.  For many implementations this ends up with nil or
0 in it.  However if malloc or new cannot guareentee zero filled memory
on mallocs then an occasional SIGSEGV may occur in linkup().

As patched, I have had no further while using it on an NCR-Tower32 (68020
and SystemV) in trying to port TeX to the Tower32. I'm still testing with
initex but it looks very promising and I have gotten much further in the 
effort than with any of the Pascal compilers available for the Tower32.

-- 
	-Mike Wescott
	 wescott@ncrcae.Columbia.NCR.COM


