This is the source directory for uuhosts, which may be used to display
UUCP mail and USENET news information previously extracted from the
USENET newsgroup mod.map.  Mail routing information as produced by
pathalias is also displayed.  Since uuhosts needs the map information
from the USENET spool directory for mod.map extracted into a more
accessible (and permanent) location, it can be used to do that, too.

This version of uuhosts, 1.59, works with the latest (September 1985)
mod.map postings.  It uses newsgroup mod.map instead of newsgroup
mod.map.uucp, which version 1.58 and all previous uuhosts used.  It
also does map extraction quite differently from versions previous to
1.52.  Rather than immediately extracting each article when it arrives,
a list is kept of the pathnames of incoming articles, and "uuhosts -unbatch"
is called nightly to do the extraction.  Because of both of these changes
--->  It is necessary to completely reinstall uuhosts <--- using the new
installation instructions.

Output paging by means of more, pg, etc. has been added, due to popular
demand.  A default pager must be set in the Makefile.  If the compile-time
parameters get much more complicated, I will probably pick up Larry Wall's
configuration package.

Peculiar failures which I have not been able to reproduce here have
been reported from some systems running some ports of System V.  Please
let me know of any problems, such as uuhosts not recognizing articles
in mod.map as valid, and mailing them to postmaster rather than
extracting them.


If you don't have a UNIX group named news in /etc/group, you should 
create one, as uuhosts depends on it.

To install uuhosts, first look at the beginning of the Makefile and
adjust any pathnames or other parameters which are incorrect for your
system.  Then do "make" to be sure everything compiles correctly.
To install the necessary shell script, C program, and manual entry,
as well as creating all necessary new directories, do "make install"
as root.

Once the program is installed, you will want to extract any existing
mod.map articles so uuhosts can display their information.  To do
this, type "uuhosts -setup &".  Do not do it as root!  Do it as some
user in group news.  It will take a while:  display speed has been
bought by slowness in extraction.  You should only ever need to do
this once, because of the last installation steps:

Finally, modify NEWS/sys by hand so that inews will batch incoming
mod.map articles, and also arrange for "uuhosts -unbatch" to
be called nightly by cron.  See the MAINTENANCE section of the uuhosts
manual entry for how to do this.  Do not call "uuhosts -unbatch" as root!
Have it called as some user in group news.


Pathalias is not included here:  it was posted to net.sources recently.
If you have uupath, you may want to use it to look up UUCP routing
information instead of the method uuhosts uses by default.
Just look for uupath in uuhosts.sh and it's obvious what to change.


For the mod.map extraction (and *only* that extraction), uuhosts
depends on a small setuid program called mapsh (included here) which
uses chroot(2), which is in (at least) 4BSD, System N, and Version 7.
The purpose of mapsh is to limit the commands which may be executed
when found in a map article.  If you trust everyone who can post to
USENET from any machine in the world, you can probably replace mapsh
with "cd $MAPS; sh".  Or you can use unmvax!lee's article parser in C,
if you like.

				John Quarterman
				Department of Computer Sciences
				University of Texas at Austin
				Austin, Texas 78712 USA
				jsq@sally.utexas.edu (jsq@ut-sally.ARPA)
				{ihnp4,seismo,gatech,harvard,ctvax}!ut-sally!jsq

Here is an example of the most common use of uuhosts, which is to
display information about a particular host:

sally% uuhosts bang
UUCP mail path for bang:
bang	ihnp4!bang!%s
UUCP mail path for bang annotated by location:
bang(usa.ca.s)	ihnp4(att.il)!bang(usa.ca.s)!%s

UUCP mail information for host bang (#USENET lines show USENET news links):
#Name		      bang
#System-CPU-OS	      Model 16B - Xenix
#Organization	      Bang World Communications
#Contact	      Bret Marquis
#Electronic-Address      {ihnp4, sdcsvax}!bang!bam
#Telephone	      (619) 450-2110
#Postal-Address	      La Jolla, CA
#Latitude-Longitude	32 51 N / 117 16 W city 
#Remarks	
#Written-by	      web 4/28/85, web 4/6/85, web per bam 3/28/85
#USENET	sys1 futura
#
bang    blia(EVENING), cbosgd(DEMAND), celerity(DIRECT), crash(DIRECT),
	epicom(WEEKLY), futura(WEEKLY), ihnp4(DEMAND), netword(EVENING), 
	noscvax(DIRECT), orca(DEMAND), sdchema(DIRECT), sdcsvax(DIRECT),
	sdhubbs(WEEKLY), sys1(DEMAND), systech(DAILY), telesoft(DIRECT),
	vis(DEMAND), westsci(DAILY), wolf(DIRECT)

