Here is a program (in pascal!!) that can be used for plotting graphs using
LaTeX. The program is like a preprocessor that generates LaTeX commands
to plot the graph depending on a variety of options. Right now it can 
handle graphs of First Quadrant with origin at (0,0), and I'll let it 
be known if I make any modifications in future and if there is interest,
although I don't think I'll be able to get to it for atleast another month.
It is fairly easy to fix the program if you want other quadrants, but not
so easy to handle all quadrants in one program, & will involve a bit of
hacking. That is my next indulgence.
I have not extensively tested the program, but it seems to work fine on
a few examples that I tried. You are welcome to modify it, use it, claim
it, sell it, pass it on, or junk it. Let me know if you are plaaning to do
major modifications so I don't end up duplicating work.

Initially I also thought that one could plot only circles in the pic
environment of LaTeX, but as I learnt more tricks, I discoverd a variety
of other characters one could plot & I was quite excited about it; to
share my excitement with all of you, I've added a LaTeX file at the end.
I am quite sure many people have discovered it too since the idea is quite
simple, but in any case I added it for people who might not have.

Before you start passing any judgements on the usefulness, originality,
quality of programming, etc.  I should say a few things:
0. We have LaTeX version 2.06a and it is desighed for that; can't say about
   prior or later versions.
1. I am not a very good programmer, don't know C yet. The code is rather
   sloppy , particularly in my handling of strings.
2. I don't know troff at all, hence the documentation is a plain text file;
   my apologies for that.
3. I don't know LaTeX very well yet, so please don't laugh at some of the
   constructs I've used.
4. It works; (I don't quite support such attitudes in programming.)
5. Even after all the above you feel like putting me down, you are welcome
   but try to be a little constructive; I am very open to comments that will
   enhance my knowledge.
6. Its not a great program, and I am sure many of you have written similar
   ones to suit your own purposes, & that's what I had done. Now I have
   attempted to make a fairly general utility.

-- 
Sunil Podar
SUNY at Stony Brook

	CSNET: podar@sbcs.csnet
	ARPA: podar%suny-sb.csnet@csnet-relay.arpa
	UUCP: {allegra, hocsd, philabs, ogcvax} !sbcs!podar
