.AB
This paper compares the IBM PC/AT and the Intel 286/310 supermicro
running XENIX.  The PC/AT is running Microsoft XENIX Release 3 and
the 310 is running Intel XENIX Release 3, which is derived from the
Microsoft Version.  Since the machines were designed
separately and for different market segments, there are a number of minor
differences despite the derivation of the software from the same source.
These differences strengthen and clarify the positioning of the two
machines for its particular market segment.
.AE
.SH
Ergonomics
.PP
The IBM PC/AT was introduced as a high-end single user machine.  As such, it is
tailored for the end user.  The 286/310 is tuned to be a box capable of
8-12 user operation and is aimed at the OEM market.  We begin to see the
difference immediately in the design of the external aesthetics of the
hardware and manuals.  The PC/AT has an attractive grey and white exterior
with less imposing visual contrasts than the 310's yellow and black exterior.
It is a quiet box, without the 310's fan noise, and the manuals are
attractively packaged and down-sized to look less formidable.
.PP
On the other hand, the keyboard and display which come with the PC/AT are
less well done.  Although the display is capable of color, the text is
displayed as bluish-white characters on a grey background, which results in
poor contrast.  The keyboard's tactile feedback feels like the keys are
crumbling when struck.  Tastes in displays and keyboards vary widely,
and since the 310 does not come with keyboard or display, one can pick
one with the right appeal.
.SH
General Issues
.PP
Let's begin to look at hardware and software issues which might affect
both OEM customers and end users.
.PP
First off, the winchester on the PC/AT I was using is extremely unreliable.
After running comprehensive diagnostic and repair software the disk finally
appeared free of bad blocks, only to have a few more appear a few hours later.
It appears to be somewhat normal for marginal blocks to test OK during
diagnostics, then fail when the user puts data on them.  The PC/AT does not
cope with this well.  The approach is to scan the disk during installation
and use every block that appears good during that scan.  The Intel practice
of placing a list of marginal or bad sectors on the drive itself seems much
better at avoiding problems with bad blocks.
.PP
The PC/AT has two 5.256" floppy disk drives.  These floppy drives are capable
of operating in 48tpi or 96tpi mode and have a very high density format which
allows them to store as much information as an 8" drive on an Intel machine.
The purchase of a 311 with Archive tape for the 310 system gives more
removable storage capacity, but at increased cost.
.PP
One hardware feature of the PC/AT does not seem to be used with PC/AT XENIX
software.  The color monitor is used only in the black and white mode, and I
could not get it to operate in color, even using the special device nodes
provided for this.
.PP
There are a number of software features of interest when comparing the two
systems.  These features are available or more fully developed on only one
of the two systems.
.PP
Intel XENIX supports OpenNet, a separately purchased
set of networking software, which supports transparent file access between
XENIX systems and access to files on systems running MS-DOS and Intel's RMX
operating system.
.PP
Intel XENIX also supports a set of interface routines (UDI) which allow
applications to be developed to run under both XENIX and RMX.  These routines
also support the implementation of overlays, allowing large tasks to reduce
their run-time memory demands.
.PP
Intel has replaced Microsoft's printer spooling software with a more
sophisticated facility similar to the software supplied with Berkeley
4.2 UNIX.  This software supports multiple printers, improved configurability,
and the ability to cancel print jobs.
.PP
Intel also provides software warranty service, which entitles the customer to
regular (quarterly) update service and consultation with the Intel Customer
Service Organization.
.PP
On the PC/AT side, IBM provides a `lockf' system call which Intel XENIX does
not currently provide.  This system call provides a mechanism for file locking,
which is also provided by the `locking' system call present on both systems.
.PP
The PC/AT provides a command to provide on-line reference material to XENIX
users, which is not currently available with Intel XENIX.  They do not,
however, provide any such reference materials, which limits the command's
usefulness.
.PP
Both Intel and PC/AT XENIX provide support for MS-DOS file transfer.  In
addition, the PC/AT provides cross development in the form of compiler,
linker, and library options to generate MS-DOS executables.  Intel XENIX
currently does not provide the large model library or the MS-DOS cross
development linker.
.PP
I need to verify whether nroff and troff are improved on the PC/AT.
.SH
OEM Specific Issues
.PP
OEM users will look at two major issues more carefully then the end user.
The first issue is the adaptability of the software to different hardware, to
allow flexibility for different peripherals as well as to allow component
and board designs.  Intel XENIX comes out ahead in I/O flexibility by providing
more drivers with the XENIX product, and providing a great deal of flexibility
within each driver.  For example, the disk driver supplied with PC/AT XENIX
allows for various partitioning schemes on the 20 megabyte hard disk.  The
Intel driver not only allows configuration of partitioning, but also drive
characteristics, allowing the OEM to configure a number of drives of various
types.
.PP
What should I say about the binary adaptation kit?  They arrange sys/conf to
match the kit.
.PP
The PC/AT uses a CMOS memory to store a feature bitmap, allowing software to
check for the existance of various IBM peripheral cards.
.PP
Another class of OEM customers look at issues relaing to the ease of software
development.  There are a number of details which differentiate the 310 and
the PC/AT.
.PP
First, the Intel version of the `vi' text editor has been modified to allow
editing of files up to 200K bytes, as compared to approximately 45K bytes
for `vi' on the PC/AT.  This affects the editing of source files, which often
exceed 45K.
.PP
Another issue is the shared data system calls.  Intel has done significant
work to make the shared data system calls much more reliable.  A compatibility
nit crops up in the shared data area.  Microsoft engineering specs show the
file sd.h in /usr/include/sys, and Intel complies with these specs.  However,
the manuals refer to this file in the directory /usr/inclde, and the PC/AT 
places it there.
.PP
The version of the `adb' debugger supplied with the PC/AT has improved single
stepping and tracing capabilities.
.PP
The PC/AT also provides a utility to examine C source code and determine the
amount of stack usage for each subroutine.  However, it is not possible to
analyze the calling sequences which will occur when the program is run in
order to use this information to advantage.
.SH
End User Features
.PP
Since IBM emphasises the end user, at look at end-user features should
naturally be somewhat biased toward the PA/AT, and this is indeed the
case.
.PP
The PC/AT comes with a keyboard and a display.  As a result, the user does
not have to configure the system for a new terminal type -- the PC/AT comes
configured for the monitor that comes with it.  The PC/AT also supplies a
`setkey' utility which configures the function keys on the keyboard and an
keyswitch which diables the keyboard.  Again, this is possible for them,
since the `terminal type' is fixed.
.PP
One nice feature of the PC/AT is the relatively quick installation.  The PC/AT
XENIX software comes in three sets of diskettes -- the basic system, text
processing software, and the development software.  Because of the large
capacity of each floppy, the total number of diskettes is 8, as opposed to
our 24 diskettes, and each diskette reads in approximately the same time
as for the 310 system.
.PP
Since the PC/AT hardware configuration is fairly well determined, a very
simple Interactive Configuration Utility suffices to configure the disk,
line printer, and timezone for the PC/AT.  The 310 supports much more
sophisticated variations in the hardware, and the greater complexity of
the configuration task has delayed the introduction of an ICU for Intel
XENIX.
.PP
The PC/AT has a battery powered real time clock, allowing it to keep track
of the time even when powered down.  This removes the need to tell the system
the time when the sytem is brought up.
.PP
The next release of XENIX will rename the `cwcheck', `eqncheck', and `mmcheck'
utilities to `checkcw', `checkeq', and `mmcheck', respectively.  This will
call the utilities by the System 5 names and is a small part of System 5
compatibility.  The PC/AT currently allows these utilities to be used by either
name.
.PP
The PC/AT allows the user to control the set of programs which can be executed
over the UUCP network.  Intel XENIX currently limits the set of commands to
a small set of commands known not to be a security problem when executed
remotely.  The PC/AT allows the flexibility of the network to be expanded,
leaving it to the user to control the security risks. 
.PP
The PC/AT provides a `news' utility which displays messages from the system
administrator to users of the system.  The usefulness of this on a single user
system seems limited.
.PP
Both PC/AT XENIX and Intel XENIX allow users to format diskettes.  The PC/AT
places the format utility in the /bin directory, making it availiable
transparently to all users.  Intel XENIX requires the user to invoke the
formatting utility explicitly from the directory /etc.
.PP
Intel XENIX does provide some end user features not provided by the PC/AT.
Intel XENIX provides the `edit' and `view' utilities, which edit and view
files and complement the other utilities for this purpose.
.PP
Intel XENIX provides the `l' and `lf' commands, which provide directory
listings which contain more information than the default.  The `ls' and `lc'
commands present on both systems will provide this information, but the
user must request it as an option.
.PP
Intel XENIX provides two utilities which allow a program developer to
manipulate executable files.  The `fixbin' utility allows certain conversions
from one executable format to another, and the `fixhdr' utility allows
parameters such as the size of the stack to be altered without recompilation.
