	@(#)README	1.3	3/30/85

This file contains a few comments about "top".

"top" is a program that will give continual reports about the state of the
system, including a list of the top cpu using processes.  It requires read
access to the memory files "/dev/kmem" and "/dev/mem" as well as the system
image "/vmunix".  Some installations have these files protected from general
access.  These sites would have to install this program in the same way that
programs such as "ps" are installed.

There are a few things that need to be checked before compiling the program:

The most important item is the internal hash table size.  This size is
defined in the program with the preprocessor variable "Table_size".  This
constant MUST be larger than the number of lines in the file /etc/passwd.
It is advisable that this number be about twice the number of lines, and
that it be a prime number (since it dictates the size of the hash table).
Make sure this is checked before compilation.

The next thing is the routine called "bzero".  This function simply zeros
a block of memory.  The file "bzero.c" in this distribution is written for
a VAX and will not work on any other type of machine.  This routine is not
needed under 4.2, since it is already defined in the C run time library.
The routine is very easy to write, but it is something that should be as
fast as possible.  If the local machine is not a VAX then "bzero.c" will
have to be replaced with something else.  If you can't come up with a
slick method, there is a very simple C equivalent (although it will not be
very fast) that will work:

	bzero(memory, amount)
	
	char *memory;
	int amount;
	
	{
	    while (amount > 0)
	    {
		*memory++ = 0;
		amount--;
	    }
	}

There are two Makefiles in this distribution.  One makes a version of top
for a 4.1 system (called "Makefile4.1") and the other makes a version for a
4.2 system (called "Makefile4.2").  Rename or link the version that is
appropriate for your machine to "Makefile" before running make.  There are
some differences compiling and linking the different versions.  For example:
"bzero" is already defined in the 4.2 C library, so that routine is not needed
under 4.2.  There are also differences in the source, which are
conditionally compiled.  Both of these cases are handled correctly by the
appropriate Makefile.

Finally, there are two preprocessor variables that are defined at compile
time by the makefile.  These are "Default_TOPN" and "Default_DELAY".  Their
values are the defaults used for the top number of processes to be displayed
and the number of seconds to delay between displays, respectively.  They are
set by the Makefile variables "TOPN" and "DELAY", respecitvely.  These
constants are preset as follows:  TOPN=10, DELAY=5.  These can be overriden
by either changing the Makefile or by specifying the change on the make
command line (with something like "make TOPN=15").

If you make a change to "top" that you feel would be beneficial to others
who use this program, or if you find and fix a bug, feel free to send me the
change.

Enjoy!

                                William LeFebvre
				Department of Computer Science
				Rice University
                                ARPANet address: <phil@Rice.arpa>

				U.S. Mail address:
				    William LeFebvre
				    P.O. Box 1892
				    Department of Computer Science
				    Houston, TX  77251
