This is the distribution of programs that work with mod.recipes files, to make
the USENET cookbook. There is a separate distribution of the documentation.
You must have both distributions before you can do the installation. They
are sent in two parts because the network often loses large articles.

-->	If you are not a programmer, but want to use this	<--
	software, and can't enlist the help of a
	programmer, please read the file "Novice". It
	contains simplified instructions, and can lead
	you through the installation procedure even if
	you have never installed software before.

	Ignore the rest of this README2 file if you decide to use
	the Novice instructions.

To install the recipe software at your site, copy either Makefile.bsd or
Makefile.sysv over to be named "Makefile", then edit it per the instructions
in the beginning. If you are running any non-BSD Unix, such as Sys III or
Venix, then you want to use Makefile.sysv even though you don't have sysv.

If you have the "less" program, you will probably want to use it instead of
"more".

You may find that the best version of troff at your site is called "ptroff"
or "dtroff" or "itroff" or "qtroff" or whatever--the first letter tends to
correspond to the manufacturer of the machine for which that troff is
targeted.

Once you have edited your Makefile, type
	make configure
This will produce configured executable versions of the cookbook software in
your current directory. Once you have satisfied yourself that it is not a
trojan horse, type
	make install
which will copy the executable programs to the directory you have chosen for
them (we put them in /usr/local/bin) and copy the manual pages to
/usr/man/man1 and /usr/man/man5. You needn't be root to install, you only
need to be a user who has write permission in the bin and man directories.

Once you've done that, go read the man pages, then go play with "rn" and have
fun printing cookbooks. This will also work with readnews; I don't know from
notesfiles, and I have never tried it with vnews or yarn or any of those
other programs.

Here are the program names and what they do:

rcbook.t	make a cookbook with troff
rcnew.t		make a cookbook update with troff
rcextract	extract a recipe from a news article (called by rctypeset)
rcindex		produce an index of saved recipes (called by rcbook)
rcintro		generate the introduction to the cookbook (called by rcbook)
rckeep		keep a recipe
rckeepnew	keep all new recipes (new since last rckeepnew run)
rcnroff		run one recipe through nroff
rcshow		show one recipe on the screen
rctypeset	run one recipe through troff
rcbook.n	nroff version of rcbook.t
rcnew.n		nroff version of rcnew.t

The troff and nroff macros use the manual macros /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an as a
subroutine. If your site has changed those manual page macros significantly
from the original AT&T or Berkeley distribution, then things might not work.
In particular, the macros distributed by DEC with Ultrix 1.2 are not
compatible.

	Brian Reid
	DEC Western Research Laboratory
	Palo Alto, California
	{ucbvax,ihnp4,decvax}!decwrl!reid	-or-	reid@decwrl.DEC.COM
