
This is patch number 1 for the version of ispell I posted recently.  My
thanks to the many people (listed in the man page) who submitted changes,
fixes, and improvements, and my apologies to Walt Buehring, whom I
inadvertently failed to credit fully in my previous posting.

This patch consists of three parts:  this file (Patch1), a new program named
icombine.c (thanks to Gary Puckering), and a replacement for the
"munchlist.sh" shell script (now called "munchlist.X" thanks to Rich Salz's
configurability improvements).

To apply this patch:

    (1) Unshar this file by piping it through /bin/sh
    (2) Remove "munchlist.sh"
    (3) Type "patch < Patch1" in the ispell directory.
    (4) Move all ispell.words files to ".ispell_words" after rebuilding.

Improvements added in this patch:

    (1) Configuration is simpler.  You still must edit both the Makefile
	and config.h, but each variable is defined in only one place, so
	there are no consistency worries.  There are also a few
	explanatory comments.  (Rich Salz)
    (2) The LOOK command is now configurable.  If LOOK is defined, it is
	the command to use for lookup.
    (2) The install dependency now installs the manual.  (Rich Salz)
    (3) Buildhash is a hair faster.  (Rich Salz)
    (4) The dictionary file does not require slashes separating each flag.
	Thus, "PLOT/G/S" can now be written "PLOT/GS".  This saves a bit
	of dictionary space.  This format is not required, but is generated
	by ispell (for the personal dictionary), icombine, and munchlist.
	(Rich Salz)
    (5) The default personal dictionary is now a dot file, ".ispell_words".
    (6) Ispell will now offer up to 100 possible corrections, instead of
	only 10.  Most corrections still require only a single keystroke.
    (7) Ispell now makes use of the extra lines on tall terminals.
    (8) Perry Smith's region support for ispell.el has been reintegrated.
    (9) Ispell now sorts the list of possible corrections.
   (10) The -t switch selects TeX mode, wherein TeX-style constructs are
	skipped.  (Don Kark, Greg Schaffer)
   (11) The troff processing has been improved somewhat so that string
	and number defines are ignored.  (Gary Puckering)

Problems fixed by this patch:

    (1) The Makefile wouldn't find buildhash if "." wasn't in the path.
	(Rich Salz)
    (2) On BSD systems, param.h gets types.h, so buildhash.c can't
	include both.  (Jim Knutson)
    (3) Buildhash was neglecting to initialize the "keep" flag.  (Don Kark)
    (4) In config.h (now config.X), there was an ifdef that used SYSV
	instead of USG.  (Dave Mason)
    (5) Ispell's temp file was named "spell*" and was in /usr/tmp, not /tmp.
	(Rich Salz)
    (6) The s_ending routine in good.c had an unintended, but harmless,
	fallthrough in one of the case statements.  (Greg Schaffer)
    (7) If the dictionary has more than 32K words, the hash routine could
	generate a negative hash code.
    (8) Ispell no longer generates a spurious CR on every line in -l mode.
        (Gary Puckering)
    (9) A missing type declaration in lookup.c could cause bugs on
	pointer != int machines.  (Jim Knutson, Rich Salz, Bill Randle)
   (10)	The startup code didn't set ospeed, so padding didn't work.
	(Perry Smith)
